The Tempest by William Shakespeare
Copyright Black Cat Publishing
Hello, my name is William Shakespeare. I was born in Stratford upon Avon in England on the 23rd of April 1564.
I write plays, but I like to act too. In England, I'm very famous. All sorts of people come and see my plays.
Hamlet, Macbeth, Romeo and Juliet. Maybe you know them.
I am the king of Naples. I am the king's son. And I am the king's brother.
I am the Duke of Milan. And I am Prospero's brother. I'm not a good man.
I am a good old man. I am the king's friend. I am the real Duke of Milan. And I'm a magician.
I'm Prospero's daughter. I am a monster. And I'm a magic spirit.
I'm a butler. I work on the kingship. I'm a jester and I work on the kingship too.
Part 1. The Real Duke of Milan
Prospero is the real Duke of Milan. But he does not live in Milan. He lives on a small, lonely island with his beautiful young daughter, Miranda.
Prospero doesn't want to live on this island, but he has no choice. His bad brother, Antonio, says he is the Duke of Milan, and Prospero cannot return to the city.
Prospero and Miranda are not the only people on the Little Island. There is also a magic spirit called Ariel and a monster called Caliban.
Prospero is now their master, and they are his slaves. Prospero is a magician. He is very clever, and he knows a lot about magic and spells from his books.
Ariel helps Prospero with his magic. Alonso, Antonio, Alonso's son Ferdinand, Sebastian and Gonzalo are on the king's boat.
Prospero decides to punish his brother, Antonio. He is going to send a big storm, a tempest.
Part 1.
That's the king of Naples. And that's the Duke of Milan. Hello, everybody. Hello, my friend.
Excuse me. Yes? Yes. I'm the Duke of Milan, not him. He is my brother, my very bad brother.
Oh? Oh.
Sorry, brother. I am strong, and you are not. Now I am the Duke, and you are a poor man. Now I live in your castle, and you live on a small island.
Hahah.
Now my bad brother is the Duke, and I live on this small island with my daughter Miranda.
Yes. 12 years on this small island, with my father and Caliban, and Ariel.
Who is Caliban?
Who is Ariel?
They are my slaves.
No, they are not, Father.
Caliban is a monster.
And Ariel is a magic spirit.
Listen, Miranda.
I want to punish my brother and the king.
I want to do some magic.
My father has a magic book.
He reads his book every day and he does lots of magic.
I want to make a storm.
A tempest.
I want to make a tempest to punish the duke.
The next day, the king and the duke are in a boat.
And Prospero makes a magic tempest.
Ariel, be quiet.
I want to listen to the television.
Why? What program is it?
Is it football?
No, it's the weather forecast.
I want to know the weather for tomorrow.
Today is a beautiful day.
I don't know.
It's sunny, but it's windy too.
Perhaps it will rain tomorrow.
With a forecast starting now.
Good evening and welcome to the weather forecast.
There will be snow on the mountains tomorrow,
but it will be sunny near the sea.
It will be cloudy in the afternoon.
The next day, stay at home because it will be very stormy.
There will be a big tempest.
Oh no, a big tempest tomorrow.
What's a tempest?
Don't you know, Caliban?
A tempest is a big, big storm.
Now listen to the conversation again.
Ariel, be quiet.
I want to listen to the television.
Why? What program is it?
Is it football?
No, it's the weather forecast.
I want to know the weather for tomorrow.
Today is a beautiful day.
I don't know. It's sunny, but it's windy too.
Perhaps it will rain tomorrow.
With a forecast starting now.
Good evening and welcome to the weather forecast.
There will be snow on the mountains tomorrow,
but it will be sunny near the sea.
It will be cloudy in the afternoon.
The next day, stay at home because it will be very stormy.
There will be a big tempest.
Oh no, a big tempest tomorrow.
What's a tempest?
Don't you know, Caliban?
A tempest is a big, big storm.
Part two, the men are at sea when a big storm begins.
The wind is blowing hard,
and the big waves almost go over the top of the boat.
The men are all very afraid.
A man is steering the boat.
He tries to stop it from going under the waves,
but it is impossible.
They start shouting for help.
They must leave the ship to save themselves.
There is a small island not too far away.
The men don't know this,
and they don't know it is a magic tempest.
From a distance, Prospero is watching the storm.
His magic is working well,
but Ariel's work is not finished.
Prospero has plans for the men,
but first, they must arrive on the island.
Part two.
Good morning, Your Majesty.
Ah, good morning, Antonio.
It's very windy today.
Good morning, Father.
Good morning, Antonio.
Look at the big waves.
There's a big storm today.
Ah!
Look!
Very good, Ariel.
Yes, sir.
Your magic is very good.
You are very intelligent.
Yes, I know. Thank you, Ariel.
Is the magic finished, sir?
Can I go now?
No, Ariel.
There is more magic for you to do.
Good morning, Antonio.
Are you sleeping?
Oh, good morning, Your Majesty.
What time is it?
It's half past seven, Antonio.
Come on, get up.
Today is not a good day.
Why?
What's the problem?
There is a big storm coming.
The sky is black, and the sea is angry.
And where is your son Ferdinand the Prince?
Ferdinand is reading the book.
And where is Gonzalo?
Gonzalo is an old man.
He is sleeping.
Listen, Your Majesty.
What's that noise?
It's the storm, Antonio.
Listen to the conversation again.
Good morning, Antonio.
Are you sleeping?
Oh, good morning, Your Majesty.
What time is it?
It's half past seven, Antonio.
Come on, get up.
Today is not a good day.
Why?
What's the problem?
There is a big storm coming.
The sky is black, and the sea is angry.
And where is your son Ferdinand the Prince?
Ferdinand is reading the book.
And where is Gonzalo?
Gonzalo is an old man.
He is sleeping.
Listen, Your Majesty.
What's that noise?
It's the storm, Antonio.
Famous shipwrecks.
The Merry Celeste.
It is 1872.
A beautiful ship leaves New York.
It is going to Genoa in Italy.
The ship is carrying a lot of barrels of alcohol.
A few months later, the captain of a Portuguese ship, the Gratia,
sees a very strange thing between the islands of the Azores and Portugal.
There is a ship in the sea, but there is no one on it.
Where are the captain and his men?
People call it a ghost ship.
The Portuguese take the ship to Gibraltar, and they use it again,
but it brings bad luck.
There is bad weather near Haiti, and the ship sinks there.
Today, many people go to visit the ship.
They dive underwater and try to discover the mystery.
But nobody really knows the true story of the Merry Celeste.
What do you think it is?
The Titanic.
When we think about famous shipwrecks in history, we nearly always think about the Titanic.
Wednesday, the 10th of April 1912.
The Titanic leaves Southampton to sail to New York.
They say it is impossible for the ship to sink.
There are rich people travelling first class.
They want to go to New York because they like travelling.
There are also a lot of poor people.
They travel third class.
They want to start a new life in America.
A few days later, not far from Halifax on the northeast coast of Canada,
the captain sees a big iceberg.
But it is too late, and the ship hits the iceberg.
Eventually, the ship breaks and sinks vertically into the cold sea.
Many people die, but some people escape on lifeboats.
Most of the survivors are first class passengers.
Why do you think this is?
Part 3. More of Ariel's Magic.
All the people from the Kings boat are still alive.
They don't know they are on the island or why they are there.
They are all very tired and they are sleeping.
Ariel calls to Ferdinand and wakes him up by singing sweetly in his ear.
Ferdinand follows the sound of this magical song and meets Prospero and Miranda.
Prospero knows what to do.
He wants Ferdinand and Miranda to fall in love.
Ferdinand immediately thinks Miranda is beautiful and tells her that he loves her.
She tells him that she loves him too, but is it real, or is it only a spell?
Part 3.
Everybody is sleeping.
I must find Ferdinand and wake him.
Time to wake up, time to wake up.
Ferdinand, come with me.
Time to do some magic, time to do some magic.
Where am I?
What's that noise?
I hear a song.
A beautiful song.
It is a beautiful song.
Wait for me.
Here is Ferdinand, sir.
Very good Ariel. You can go now.
Who are you?
What's your name?
My name is Miranda.
You're very beautiful, Miranda.
I love you.
I love you too.
Part 4. An evil plan.
Sebastian and Antonio wake up on the island.
Antonio tells Sebastian to kill his brother, then Sebastian will be King of Naples.
Sebastian agrees to the plan, but he is thinking about Gonzalo, the king's friend.
They must kill him too, or he will know about the king's murder.
But Ariel hears their plan and sings in Gonzalo's ear.
Gonzalo and the king wake up and see Antonio and Sebastian with their swords in the air.
Antonio and Sebastian look very stupid and embarrassed.
They tell a story about wanting to protect the king from some animals.
Fortunately for them, and for Ariel, the king believes their story.
They all go to look for Ferdinand, the king's son.
Part 4.
Where are we? Wake up, Sebastian!
We are on an island.
Look, the others are sleeping. This is an excellent opportunity for you, Sebastian.
Why?
If you kill your brother, the king, you can be the new king of Naples.
Good idea.
No. Wait a minute.
Gonzalo is the king's friend.
You kill the king, and I kill Gonzalo.
Okay! Let's do it now, before they wake up.
Are you ready?
Oh no! This is terrible!
I must stop this terrible plan.
One, two, three.
Time to wake up.
Where are we? Wake up, your Majesty!
What are you doing with your sword, Antonio?
Nothing, your Majesty.
There are lots of dangerous animals on the island.
Yes, we want to protect you.
Very good. Very good.
Now let's find my son, Ferdinand.
Part 5. Caliban's cloak.
Caliban is very sad.
He doesn't want to be Prospero's slave. He complains about his life all the time.
He thinks he hears a bad spirit, so he hides under his cloak.
But the noise is coming from Trinkler, the king's jester.
He is looking for the others.
He hears a storm, and he sees Caliban's cloak.
He decides the cloak is a good place to hide.
The king's butler, Stefano, is walking in the same direction,
and suddenly he too sees a strange shape with lots of legs but no head.
He thinks it is a monster.
Trinkler lifts up the cloak, and is surprised to see Stefano.
Caliban introduces himself.
He tells the jester and the butler all his problems.
He wants to kill Prospero, then he can be free.
Stefano agrees to help Caliban.
Ariel quickly goes to tell Prospero about their plan.
Part 5.
Oh, poor me.
Poor Caliban.
Every day I must work for Prospero.
I want to be free, but I am his slave.
Where are the others? Where's the king? And where's Stefano?
Oh, no. I hear a voice.
It is probably a bad spirit from Prospero.
I must hide.
What a beautiful island. And what is this?
It has arms and legs, but no head.
It is a monster.
Oh, no. Another storm. I must hide.
Where are the others?
Where is the king? And where is Trinkler?
And what is this?
It has forearms and forelegs, but no head.
It is a monster.
Hello, monster. Hello.
Help. Prospero's bad spirits want to torment me.
Oh.
Stefano. Hello. It's me, Trinkler.
And who is he?
I am poor Caliban.
I am Prospero's slave, but I want to be free.
I want to kill Prospero.
That's terrible. You must do something.
We could help you.
No, Stefano. It's not a good idea.
Yes. We must kill Prospero and take control of the island.
Thank you. Thank you.
I must tell Prospero this terrible plan.
Magic and Magicians
Magic is part of the history of many different cultures.
Shakespeare's plays have examples of both good and bad witches.
There are also witches, wizards and magicians in a lot of books and films.
The word magic comes from the word magos.
This is an old word for a priest with special powers.
There are many different opinions about magic.
Some people believe it is possible to explain everything by using science.
Other people think there are special types of energy.
They believe people like wizards and magicians can control this energy and make it do different things.
Today, we often think of magic as a way of doing special tricks or illusions.
The audience does not know the magician's secret.
We are curious to know how he can do such an impossible thing.
The audience must not know about the secrets behind a magic trick.
The enjoyment of magic comes from trying to guess how the magician does his trick.
The magic circle is a special secret society for magicians.
It is only for professional magicians and today there are about 1,500 members.
They must promise not to tell any of the secrets they learn in the magic circle.
A famous escape artist and the master of illusion.
Think back to the late 19th century.
You are in the audience of a famous escape artist.
Harry Houdini is a Hungarian magician.
This is his first big tour.
On stage he is fighting with chains and ropes.
You watch.
Your mouth is open when he frees himself.
Then they put him in a tank full of water.
He is upside down and he has a jacket with many belts.
You think it is impossible for him to escape, but he does.
After he leaves the show, Houdini continues to do his amazing escapes all over the world.
He becomes very famous.
Let's return to the present day.
You are now watching David Copperfield, the master of illusion.
This time he is not in a theatre.
He is on television.
He says he can walk through the great wall of China.
You don't believe anyone can do that.
You think it must be a camera trick, but the people standing next to him
watch his body walk in the wall and go out of the wall on the other side.
Nobody understands how he does it.
He lies in the air over the Grand Canyon like he is lying on a bed of air
and he doesn't fall.
He makes the statue of Liberty disappear and hundreds of people in New York
can't see the statue anymore.
A lot of people are interested in magic, but we don't all believe in it.
What do you think about Houdini and David Copperfield's tricks?
Are they really magic?
Part 6, Delicious Food
Prospero is now ready for the next part of his plan.
It is time for his brother to understand his actions.
Gonzalo is tired and wants to stop and rest.
Antonio thinks this is a good moment to kill Alonzo
and also Gonzalo.
Sebastian tells him to wait until nighttime.
Just at that moment a strange thing happens.
They start to hear some beautiful music and suddenly lots of delicious food arrives.
The king and his men are hungry and they are very surprised and excited.
They imagine themselves eating all this lovely food, but then it suddenly disappears again.
Instead of the food, they see Ariel.
Ariel talks to them about Prospero and Miranda.
She says everything is Antonio's fault.
Antonio remembers his brother Prospero and the evil things of the past.
He knows he is not a good brother, but is he really sorry?
There is the sound of music and Ariel disappears.
Part 6
Ariel, it is time to do some magic. Go to my brother and his friends.
Yes sir, of course sir.
Oh, I am very old.
I am very tired.
Can we stop now?
Kill him now Sebastian. He is very tired.
No, not now.
Tonight when he sleeps.
Look at all this food. I am very hungry.
Let's eat.
Yes, let's eat.
Stop! You are all bad men.
Prospero and Miranda live on this island for 12 years, and it's your fault.
Oh yes, it's true. I am a terrible man, and now I'm very sorry.
My poor brother, poor Miranda.
Very good Ariel.
Thank you sir.
It's time to eat, but we have no food.
What can we do? I'm very hungry.
I don't know.
What do you want to eat?
Alonso, what's your favorite food?
Well, I like pasta and pizza. What about you, Gonzalo?
Oh, I'm an old man. I have problems with my teeth.
I only eat soup and ice cream.
Soup and ice cream together?
No, first the soup and then the ice cream.
I like ice cream too, especially chocolate ice cream.
But I don't like soup.
Yes, but Sebastian, what's your favorite food?
I love English food.
Fish and chips is my favorite.
English food is very bad, Sebastian, but we are on an island.
Why don't we eat fish?
Good idea.
If we find some potatoes, we can have fish and chips for dinner.
Now listen to the conversation again.
For questions one to six, tick A, B, or C.
You will listen to the conversation twice.
It's time to eat, but we have no food.
What can we do? I'm very hungry.
I don't know.
What do you want to eat?
Alonso, what's your favorite food?
Well, I like pasta and pizza.
What about you, Gonzalo?
Oh, I'm an old man.
I have problems with my teeth.
I only eat soup and ice cream.
Soup and ice cream together?
No, first the soup and then the ice cream.
I like ice cream too, especially chocolate ice cream.
But I don't like soup.
Yes, but Sebastian, what's your favorite food?
I love English food.
Fish and chips is my favorite.
English food is very bad, Sebastian, but we are on an island.
Why don't we eat fish?
Good idea.
If we find some potatoes, we can have fish and chips for dinner.
Part seven, the bright, beautiful cloak.
Ferdinand and Miranda tell Prospero that they love each other.
Prospero says they can marry.
He makes them beautiful music, and the couple starts dancing.
Prospero is enjoying the music, but he knows something else is happening.
Caliban wants to kill him, and his brother is on the island too.
He tells Ariel about his plan.
Ariel finds Stefano and Trinkilo with Caliban.
They are walking in the forest.
There's lots of water and their clothes are wet.
They see a bright colored cloak, but they cannot see Ariel.
They think it is very beautiful and they want to have it.
They follow the cloak until they see some very big, very angry dogs.
They don't know they are really magic dogs.
They are all very afraid.
They start screaming and they run away.
Part seven.
Now it's time to organize the wedding.
Thank you, father.
I love Ferdinand very much.
And I love Miranda very much.
Stop dancing, I must think.
Stefano, Trinkilo, and Caliban want to kill me.
And my brother is also here on the island.
I have a plan.
Ariel?
Yes, sir.
Time to do some magic.
One, two, three.
Come with me.
Look at that.
What is it?
It is beautiful.
I want it.
Me too.
Let's go.
Now I will make some magic dogs to scare them.
Go, dogs, go.
Part eight.
Saying sorry.
Ariel takes Alonso, Gonzalo, Sebastian, and Antonio to Prospero.
They say sorry to Prospero.
Prospero is angry, but he decides to forgive them.
Alonso thanks Prospero, but he is still very sad because he thinks his son Ferdinand is dead.
Prospero then gives him the good news.
His son is not dead.
He is with Miranda.
Ferdinand introduces Miranda to his father.
Alonso is pleased about the news about his son and his new daughter.
Just at that moment, Stefano, Trinkilo, and Caliban arrive.
The dogs are behind them.
They are chasing them.
Prospero forgives them as well and tells Caliban he is free.
He can now be master of the island.
He also frees Ariel.
They are both very happy.
Ferdinand and Miranda want to marry as soon as possible.
Prospero does not need to do any more magic now.
He prepares to return to Milan.
But first, he is going to organize a big party for them all.
Part 8
Now, I must speak to my brother Antonio and the others.
Here they are.
I don't believe it, my brother Prospero.
Antonio, you are a bad man.
Sebastian, Alonso, you are bad men too.
Yes, Prospero, you're right.
We are bad men, but we're very sorry now.
My poor brother, I'm very sorry.
Please forgive me.
Of course I forgive you.
I forgive you all.
I am very happy for this.
But I am very sad because my son is lost.
Perhaps he's dead.
No, here is your son.
He's not lost.
He's here with my daughter Miranda.
Father Ferdinand.
This is Miranda.
I love her very much.
We want to get married.
I'm very happy.
This is very good news.
Let's celebrate.
Hello!
Oh, Caliban, Stefano, and Trinculo, I forgive you three too.
Thank you, sir.
When I return to Milan with my brother, you can have your island.
You can be master.
Master of the island. Thank you, sir.
And me? Can I live on the island, too?
Yes, Ariel. You and Caliban are now free. You are not my slaves. You can do what you want to do.
Now everything is organized. Tonight, a party, and tomorrow we must return to Milan together.
Ferdinand de Miranda want to get to get married, and Caliban and Ariel can be masters of their island.
I must do no more magic, because our story is finished. If you like it, please clap to break the spell.